
                          The HELL SHIP

                          By Ray Palmer

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from If Worlds of Science
Fiction March 1952. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: _The passengers rocketed through space in luxury. But they
never went below decks because rumor had it that Satan himself manned
the controls of The Hell Ship._]


The giant space liner swung down in a long arc, hung for an instant on
columns of flame, then settled slowly into the blast-pit. But no hatch
opened; no air lock swung out; no person left the ship. It lay there,
its voyage over, waiting.

The thing at the controls had great corded man-like arms. Its skin was
black with stiff fur. It had fingers ending in heavy talons and eyes
bulging from the base of a massive skull. Its body was ponderous, heavy,
inhuman.

[Illustration]

After twenty minutes, a single air lock swung clear and a dozen armed
men in Company uniforms went aboard. Still later, a truck lumbered up,
the cargo hatch creaked aside, and a crane reached its long neck in for
the cargo.

Still no creature from the ship was seen to emerge. The truck driver,
idly smoking near the hull, knew this was the _Prescott_, in from the
Jupiter run--that this was the White Sands Space Port. But he didn't
know what was inside the _Prescott_ and he'd been told it wasn't healthy
to ask.

Gene O'Neil stood outside the electrified wire that surrounded the White
Sands port and thought of many things. He thought of the eternal secrecy
surrounding space travel; of the reinforced hush-hush enshrouding
Company ships. No one ever visited the engine rooms. No one in all the
nation had ever talked with a spaceman. Gene thought of the glimpse he'd
gotten of the thing in the pilot's window. Then his thoughts drifted
back to the newsrooms of Galactic Press Service; to Carter in his plush
office.

"Want to be a hero, son?"

"Who, me? Not today. Maybe tomorrow. Maybe the next day."

"Don't be cute. It's an assignment. Get into White Sands."

"Who tried last?"

"Jim Whiting."

"Where is Whiting now?"

"Frankly we don't know. But--"

"And the four guys who tried before Whiting?"

"We don't know. But we'd like to find out."

"Try real hard. Maybe you will."

"Cut it out. You're a newspaperman aren't you?"

"God help me, yes. But there's no way."

"There's a way. There's always a way. Like Whiting and the others. Your
pals."

Back at the port looking through the hot wire. _Sure there was a way.
Ask questions out loud. Then sit back and let them throw a noose around
you. And there was a place where you could do the sitting in complete
comfort. Where Whiting had done it--but only to vanish off the face of
the earth. Damn Carter to all hell!_

Gene turned and walked up the sandy road toward the place where the
gaudy neons of the Blue Moon told hard working men where they could
spend their money. The Blue Moon. It was quite a place.

Outside, beneath the big crescent sign, Gene stopped to watch the crowds
eddying in and out. Then he went in, to watch them cluster around the
slot machines and bend in eager rows over the view slots of the peep
shows.

He moved into the bar, dropped on one of the low stools. He ordered a
beer and let his eyes drift around.

A man sat down beside him. He was husky, tough looking. "Ain't you the
guy who's been asking questions about the crews down at the Port?"

Gene felt it coming. He looked the man over. His heavy face was flushed
with good living, eyes peculiarly direct of stare as if he was trying to
keep them from roving suspiciously by force of will. He was well
dressed, and his heavy hands twinkled with several rather large
diamonds. The man went on: "I can give you the information you want--for
a price, of course." He nodded toward an exit. "Too public in here,
though."

Gene grinned without mirth as he thought, _move over Whiting--here I
come_, and followed the man toward the door.

Outside the man waited, and Gene moved up close.

"You see, it's this way...."

Something exploded against Gene's skull. Even as fiery darkness closed
down he knew he'd found _the way_. But only a stupid newspaperman would
take it. Damn Carter!

Gene went out.

He seemed to be dreaming. Over him bent a repulsive, man-like face. But
the man had fingernails growing on his chin where his whiskers should
have been. And his eyes were funny--walled, as though he bordered on
idiocy. In the dream, Gene felt himself strapped into a hammock. Then
something pulled at him and made a terrible racket for a long time. Then
it got very quiet except for a throbbing in his head. He went back to
sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

She had on a starched white outfit, but it wasn't a nurse's uniform.
There wasn't much skirt, and what there was of it was only the back
part. The neckline plunged to the waist and stopped there. It was a
peculiar outfit for a nurse to be wearing. But it looked familiar.

Her soft hands fixed something over his eyes, something cold and wet. He
felt grateful, but kept on trying to remember. Ah, he had it; the girls
wore that kind of outfit in the Blue Moon in one of the skits they did,
burlesquing a hospital. He took off the wet cloth and looked again.

She was a dream. Even with her lips rouge-scarlet, her cheeks pink with
makeup, her eyes heavy with artifice.

"What gives, beautiful?" He was surprised at the weakness of his voice.

Her voice was hard, but nice, and it was bitter, as though she wanted
hard people to know she knew the score, could be just a little harder.
"You're a spaceman now! Didn't you know?"

Gene grinned weakly. "I don't know a star from a street light. Nobody
gets on the space crews these days--it's a closed union."

Her laugh was full of a knowledge denied him. "That's what I used to
think!"

She began to unstrap him from the hammock. Then she pushed back his
hair, prodded at the purple knob on his head with careful fingertips.

"How come you're on this ship?" asked Gene, wincing but letting her
fingers explore.

"Shanghaied, same as you. I'm from the Blue Moon. I stepped out between
acts for a breath of fresh air, and wham, a sack over the head and here
I am. They thought you might have a cracked skull. One of the monsters
told me to check you. No doctor on the ship."

Gene groaned. "Then I didn't dream it--there is a guy on this ship with
fingernails instead of a beard on his chin!"

She nodded. "You haven't seen anything yet!"

"Why are we here?"

"You've been shanghaied to work the ship, I'm here for a different
purpose--these men can't get off the ship and they've got to be kept
contented. We've got ourselves pleasant jobs, with monsters for
playmates, and we can't get fired. It'll be the rottenest time of our
lives, and the _rest_ of our lives, as far as I can see."

Gene sank down, put the compress back on his bump. "I don't get it."

"You will. I'm not absolutely sure I'm right, but I know a little more
about it than you."

"What's your name?"

"They call me Queenie Brant. A name that fits this business. My real
name is Ann O'Donnell."

"Queenie's a horse's name--I'll call you Ann. Me, I'm Gene O'Neil."

"That makes us both Irish," she said. He lifted the compress and saw the
first really natural smile on her face. It was a sweet smile,
introspective, dewy, young.

"You were only a dancer." He said it flatly.

For a long instant she looked at him, "Thanks. You got inside the gate
on that one."

"It's in your eyes. I'm glad to know you, Ann. And I'd like to know you
better."

"You will. There'll be plenty of time; we're bound for Io."

"Where's Io?"

"One of Jupiter's moons, you Irish ignoramus. It has quite a colony
around the mines. Also it has a strange race of people. But Ann
O'Donnell is going to live there if she can get off this ship. I don't
want fingernails growing on _my_ chin."

O'Neil sat up. "I get it now! It's something about the atomic drive that
changes the crew!"

"What else?"

Gene looked at Ann, let his eyes rove over her figure.

"Take a good look," she said bitterly. "Maybe it won't stay like this
very long!"

"We've _got_ to get off this ship!" said Gene hoarsely.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door of the stateroom opened. A sharp-nosed face peered in, followed
by a misshapen body of a man in a dirty blue uniform. Hair grew thick
all around his neck and clear up to his ears. It also covered the skin
from chin to shirt opening. The hair bristled, coarse as an animal's.
His voice was thick, his words hissing as though his tongue was too
heavy to move properly.

"Captain wants you, O'Neil."

Gene got up, took a step. He went clear across the room, banged against
the wall. The little man laughed.

"We're in space," Ann said. "We have a simulated gravity about a quarter
normal. Here, let me put on your metal-soled slippers. They're
magnetized to hold you to the floor." She bent and slipped the things on
his feet, while Gene held his throbbing head.

The little man opened the door and went out. Gene followed, his feet
slipping along awkwardly. After a minute his nausea lessened. At the end
of the long steel corridor the little man knocked, then opened the door
to a low rumble of command. He didn't enter, just stood aside for Gene.
Gene walked in, stood staring.

The eyes in the face he saw were black pools of nothingness, without
emotion, yet behind them an active mind was apparent. Gene realized this
hairy thing was the Captain--even though he didn't even wear a shirt!

"You've shanghaied me," said Gene. "I don't like it."

The voice was huge and cold, like wind from an ice field. "None of us
like it, chum. But the ships have got to sail. You're one of us now,
because we're on our way and by the time you get there, there'll be no
place left for you to work, unless it's in a circus as a freak."

"I didn't ask for it," said Gene.

"You did. You wanted to know too much about the crew--and if you found
out, you'd spread it. You see, the drives are not what they were cooked
up to be--the atomics leak, and it wasn't found out until too late.
After they learned, they hid the truth, because the cargo we bring is
worth millions. All the shielding they've used so far only seems to make
it worse. But that won't stop the ships--they'll get crews the way they
got you, and nosey people will find out more than they bargain for."

"I won't take it sitting down!" said Gene angrily.

The Captain ignored him. "Start saying sir. It's etiquette aboard ship
to say sir to the Captain."

"I'll never say sir to anyone who got me into this...."

The Captain knocked him down.

Gene had plenty of time to block the blow. He had put up his arms, but
the big fist went right through and crashed against his chin. Gene sat
down hard, staring up at the hairy thing that had once been a man. He
suddenly realized the Captain was standing there waiting for an excuse
to kill him.

Through split and bleeding lips, while his stomach turned over and his
head seemed on the point of bursting, Gene said: "Yes, sir!"

The Captain turned his back, sat down again. He shoved aside a mass of
worn charts, battered instruments, cigar butts, ashtrays with statuettes
of naked girls in a half-dozen startling poses, comic books, illustrated
magazines with sexy pictures, and made a space on the top. He thrust
forward a sheet of paper. He picked up a fountain pen, flirted it so
that ink spattered the tangle of junk on his desk, then handed it to
Gene. "Sign on the dotted line."

Gene picked up the document. It was an ordinary kind of form, an
application for employment as a spacehand, third class. The ship was not
named, but merely called a cargo boat. This was the paper the Company
needed to keep the investigators satisfied that no one was forced to
work on the ships against their will. Anger blinded him. He didn't take
the pen. He just stood looking at the Captain and wondering how to keep
himself from being beaten to death.

After a long moment of silence the Captain laid the pen down, grinned
horribly. He gave a snort. "It's just a formality. I'm supposed to turn
these things over to the authorities, but they never bother us anymore.
Sign it later, after you've learned. You'll be _glad_ to sign, then."

"What's my job, Captain?"

"Captain Jorgens, and don't forget the sir!"

"Captain Jorgens, sir."

"I'll put you with the Chief Engineer. He'll find work for you down in
the pile room."

The Captain laughed a nasty laugh, repeating the last phrase with
relish. "The pile room! There's a place for you, Mr. O'Neil. When you
decide to sign your papers, we'll get you a job in some other part of
this can!"

Gene found his way back to the cabin he had just left. The little guy
with the hairy neck was there, leering at the girl.

"Put you in the pile gang didn't he?"

Gene nodded, sat down wearily. "I want to sleep," he said.

"Nuts," said the little man. "I'm here to take you to the Chief
Engineer. You go on duty in half an hour. Come on!"

Gene got up. He was too sick to argue. Ann looked at him
sympathetically, noting his split lips. He managed a grin at her, "If I
never see you again, Ann, it's been nice knowing you, very nice."

"I'll see you, Gene. They'll find us tougher than they bargained for."

       *       *       *       *       *

The engine room looked like some of the atomic power stations he'd seen.
Only smaller. There was no heavy concrete shielding, no lead walls.
There was shielding around the central pile, and Gene knew that inside
it was the hell of atomic chain reaction under the control of the big
levers that moved the cadmium bars. There was a steam turbine at one
end, and a huge boiler at the other. Gene didn't even try to guess how
the pile activated the jets that drove the space ship. Somehow it
"burned" the water.

This pile had been illegal from the first. Obviously some official had
been bribed to permit the first use of it on a spaceship. Certainly no
one who knew anything about the subject would have allowed human beings
to work around a thing like this.

Gene's skin crawled and prickled with the energies that saturated the
room. Little sparks leaped here and there, off his fingertips, off his
nose.

The Chief Engineer was on a metal platform above the machinery level.
The face had hair all over it, even on the eyelids. The eyes, popping
weirdly, were double. They looked as if second eyes had started growing
inside the original ones. They weren't reasonable; they weren't even
sane. The look of them made Gene sick.

The Engineer shook his head back and forth to focus the awful, mutilated
eyes. His voice was infinitely weary, strangely muffled. "Another
sacrifice to Moloch, an's the pity! So they put you down here, as if
there was anything to be done? Well, it'll be nice to work with someone
who still has his buttons--as long as they last. Sit down."

Gene sat down and the metal chair gave him a shock that made him jump.
"I don't know anything about this kind of work."

The man shrugged, "Who does? The pile runs itself. Ain't enough of it
moves to need much greasing. You ought to be able to find the grease
cups--they're painted red. Fill them, wipe off the dust, and wait. Then
do it over again."

"What's the score on this bucket?"

"We're all signed on with a billy to the knob. And _kept_ aboard by a
guard system that's pretty near perfect. After awhile the emanations get
to our brains and we don't care anymore. Then we're trusted employees.
Only reason I don't blow her loose, it wouldn't do any good."

He got up, a fragile old body clad in dirty overalls. He beckoned Gene
to follow him. He led the way to a periscope arrangement over the
shielded pile. Gene peered in. It was like a look into boiling Hell. As
Gene stared, the old man talked in his ear.

"Supposed to be perfectly shielded, and maybe they are. But _something_
gets out. I think it happens in the jet assembly. A tiny trickle of high
pressure steam crosses the atomic beam just above a pinhole that leads
into the jet tube. It's exploded by the beam, exploded into God knows
what, and the result is your jet. It's a wonderful drive, with plenty of
power for the purpose. But I think it forms a strong field of static
over the whole shell of the ship, a kind of sphere of reflection that
throws the emanations back into the ship from every point. Just my
theory, but it explains why you get these physical changes, because that
process of reflection gives a different ray than was observed in the
ordinary shielded jet."

Gene nodded, asked: "Can I look at the jet assembly?"

"Ain't no way to look at it! It's sealed up to hold in the expanding
gases from that exploded steam. Looking in this periscope is what
changed my eyes. Only other place the unshielded emanations could escape
is from the jet chamber. Only way they can get back into the ship is by
reflection from some ionized layer around the ship. If I could talk to
some of those big-brained birds that developed this drive, I'd sure have
things to say."

Gene was convinced the old man knew what he was talking about. "Why
don't you try to put your information where it'll do some good? How
about the Captain?"

"He's coocoo." The old man slapped the cover back on the periscope,
tottered back to his perch on the platform. "He sure has changed the
last two years. Won't listen to reason."

Gene squatted on the steps, just beneath the old engineer's chair. The
old man seemed glad to have someone to talk to.

"It's got us trapped. And it's so well covered up from the people. Old
spacers are changed physically, changed mentally. They know they can't
go back to normal life, because it's gone too far. They'd be freaks. No
woman would want a monstrosity around. Besides, it don't stop, even
after you leave the ships. God knows what we'll look like in the end."

Gene shivered. "But you're all grown men! A fight with no chance of
winning is better than this! Why do you take it?"

"Because the mind changes along with the body. It goes dead in some
ways, gets more active in others. The personality shifts inside, until
you're not sure of yourself, and can't make decisions any more. That's
why nobody does anything. Something about those rays destroys the will.
Nobody leaves the ships."

"I will!" Gene said confidently. "When the time comes, I'll go. All Hell
can't stop me."

The old man yawned. "Hope you do, son. Hope you do. I'm going to take me
a nap." He propped his feet up on the platform rail and in seconds was
snoring.

Gene clenched his fists, growing despair in his thoughts.

"Tain't no worse than dying in a war," muttered the old man in his
sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

The days went by and Gene learned. He understood why these men didn't
actively resent the deal they were getting. No wonder the secrecy was so
effective! The radiations deadened the mind, gave one the feeling of
numbness, so that nothing mattered but the next meal, the next movie in
the recreation lounge, the next drink of water. Values changed and
shifted, and none of them seemed important.

The chains that began to bind him were far stronger than steel. The
chains were mental deterioration, degeneration, mutation within the very
cells of the mind. He knew that now he must tend this monster forever,
grease and wipe the ugly metal of it, and sit and talk idly to
MacNamara, its keeper. He realized it, and didn't know how to care!

The anger and hate came later. The real, abiding anger, and the living
hate. At first the numbness, the sudden incomprehensible enormity of
what had happened to him, then the anger. Hate churned and ground away
inside him, getting stronger by the hour. It all revolved around the
Captain who tramped eternally around the corridors bellowing orders,
punching with his huge fists. He knew there was more to it; the lying
owners of the Company, the bribe-taking officials, the health officers
who failed to examine the ships and the men and the ships' papers. But
somehow it all boiled down to the Captain.

Sometimes he was sure he must be crazy already. Sometimes he would wake
up screaming from a nightmare only to find reality more horrible.

Then he would go to Ann.

Ann was not the only woman aboard ship. There were three others, and to
the crew of twenty imprisoned, enslaved men they represented all beauty,
all womanhood. They lived with the men--as the men--and nobody cared.
Here, so close to the raging elementals of the pile, life itself was
elemental.

As one of them expressed it to Gene: "Why worry? We're all sterile from
the radioactivity anyway. Or didn't you know?" She had been on the ship
for years, and was covered with a fine fur, like a cat's. Her eyes were
wide, placid, empty; an animal's unthinking eyes. Gene prayed Ann would
never turn monster before his eyes; hoped desperately they could get
away in time.

"We've got to fight, Ann," he said to her one day. "We must find a way
to get off at the end of the trip, or it will be too late for us to live
normal lives. It's then or never. Besides that, we've got to warn people
of what's going on. They think space travel is safe. In time this could
effect the whole race. The world must be told, so something can be
done."

Ann's young face showed signs of the strain. The fear of turning into
some hideous thing was preying on her mind. She spoke rapidly, her voice
breaking a little. "I've been talking to several of the crew, the
old-timers, trying to get an understanding of why nothing is done. It's
this way: when the ships land, guards come aboard. They're posted at the
cargo locks and the passenger entrances. The only door aboard the ship
that leads to the passenger compartment is in the Captain's cabin, and
it's locked from both sides. Even our Captain never meets the
passengers. There's only one chance, a mutiny. Then we could open the
door, show the passengers."

"It wouldn't do any good. When we landed, they'd find a way to shut us
all up before we got to anybody. They've had a lot of practice keeping
this quiet. They know the answers."

She stamped a foot angrily. "It was you who said we had to fight! Now
you say it's hopeless!"

Gene leaned against the wall and passed a hand across his eyes. He
looked at Ann's flushed beauty and managed a grin. "Guess I'm getting as
bad as the rest of them, baby. We'll fight. Sure we'll fight."

       *       *       *       *       *

It started with Schwenky. Schwenky was a gigantic Swede. He was the boss
freight handler. It was his job to sort the cargo for the next port of
call. He would get it into the cargo lock, then seal the doors so nobody
would try to smuggle themselves out with the freight. Schwenky was
intensely loyal and stupid enough not to understand the real reason
behind their imprisonment--which was why he held his job. No one got by
Schwenky.

But this time, in Marsport, something was missing. They'd driven the
trucks up to the cargo port, unloaded everything, and then compared
invoices with the material. They swore some claimed machinery parts were
due them. Schwenky swore he'd placed them in the cargo lock, and that
the truckers were trying to hold up the Company.

The Captain allowed the truckers claim and after the ship had blasted
off into space, called Schwenky in to bawl him out. They must have
gotten really steamed up, because Gene and Frank Maher heard the racket
clear down on the next deck where they were cleaning freight out of a
sealed compartment for the next stop.

Gene and Frank raced up the ladders to the top deck, and Gene found the
break he had prayed for. Schwenky holding the Captain against the wall;
beating the monstrosity that had once been a man with terrible fists.
Gene felt a sudden thrill. In a situation like this you used any weapon
you could find. Schwenky was a deadly weapon.

Gene laid a hand on Schwenky's massive shoulder. "Hold it man! You'll
kill him!"

Schwenky turned a face, red and popeyed, to Gene. "The Captain make a
mistake. He try to knock Schwenky down. No man do that to Schwenky."

"When he comes to, he'll lock you in the brig, put you on bread and
water...."

Suddenly Schwenky realized the enormity of his offense. It was obvious
from his face that he considered himself already dead. "Nah, my friend
Gene! Now they kill Schwenky. Bad! But what I do?"

Gene eyed him carefully. "Put the Captain in the brig, of course. What
else? Then he _can't_ kill you."

"Lock him up, eh? Good idea! Then we think, you and I, what we do next.
Maybe something come to us, eh?"

Gene bent over the Captain's body, found the pistol in his hip pocket,
put it in his own. He took the ring of keys from the belt.

"Bring him along, Schwenky. If we meet anyone, I'll use this." Gene
patted the gun. "I won't let them hurt my friend, Schwenky."

"Damn! let them come! I fix them! Don't have to shoot them. I got
fists!"

"I'd rather be shot, myself," said Gene, watching the ease with which
the giant freight handler lifted the huge body of the Captain, tossing
it over his shoulder like a sack of straw.

"I'll go ahead," said Frank Maher. "If I run into Perkins, the First,
I'll whistle once. If I run into Symonds, the Second, I'll whistle
twice. I don't think there's another soul aboard we need worry about.
All we got to do is slap the Cap in the brig, round up Perkins and
Symonds, and the ship is ours. What worries me, Gene, then what do we
do?"

"It's Schwenky's mutiny," grinned Gene. "Ask him."

"Nah!" said Schwenky hastily. "I don' know. Maybe we just sail on till
we find good place, leave ship, go look for job."

Maher said, "Me with my lumpy face? And the Chief with hair on his
cheekbones and double eyeballs? And Heinie with fingernails growing
where his collar button should be? I wonder what we _can_ do, if we get
free?"

       *       *       *       *       *

They got down the first stairwell, but passing along the rather lengthy
companionway to the next stairhead, they heard Maher whistle twice.
Schwenky put the Captain down, conked him with one massive fist to make
sure he stayed out, then stood there, waiting. The Second came up out of
the stairwell, turned and started toward them. Gene put his hand on the
gun butt, waiting until he had to pull it. Schwenky said: "Come here,
Mr. Perkins, sir. Look see what has happened!"

The Englishman peered at the shapeless, hairy mass of the unconscious
Captain. His face went white. Gene knew he was wondering if he could
keep the crew from mutiny without the Captain present to cow them.
Perkins straightened, his face a pallid mask in the dimness. "What
happened, Schwenky?"

"This, Mr. Perkins, sir--" said Schwenky. He slapped an open palm
against the side of Perkins' head. Perkins sprawled full length on the
steel deck, but he wasn't out, which surprised Gene. He lay there,
staring up at the gigantic Swede, his face half red from the terrible
blow, the other half white with the fear in him. His hand was tugging at
his side and Gene realized he was after his gun. Gene pulled out his own
weapon even as he leaped upon the slim body of the man on the floor. His
feet missed the moving arm, the hand came out with a snub-nosed
automatic in it. Gene grabbed it, bore down. But the gun went off, the
bullet ricocheting off the wall-plates with a scream. Gene slugged the
man across the head with the barrel of the Captain's gun. Perkins went
limp. Maher came up now and grabbed Perkins' gun.

"Lead on," said Gene. He picked Perkins up and put him over his
shoulder. Schwenky retrieved the slumbering Captain and they proceeded
on their way to the cell on the bottom deck.

But the shot had been heard, and from above came the sound of running
feet. Gene began to trot, almost fell down the last flight of stairs,
went along the companionway at a run. At the cell door he dropped
Perkins, tried four or five keys frantically. One fit. He pulled open
the door and Schwenky drove in, kicking the body of Perkins over the
sill. The Captain dropped heavily to the deck and Schwenky was out
again. Gene was locking the door when he heard the shout from Symonds,
running toward them.

"What's going on there, men?"

Schwenky started to amble toward the dark, wiry Second, his big face
smiling like that of a simpleton. "We haf little trouble, Mr. Symonds,
sir. Maybe we should call you, but we did not haf time. Everything is
all right now. You come see, we explain everything...."

He made a grab for the little Second Mate's neck with one big paw. But
the Second was wary, ducked quickly, was off. Gene and Maher sprang
after him. Gene shouted: "Stop or I'll fire, Symonds! You're all alone
now!"

Gene let one shot angle off the wall, close beside the fleeing form, but
the man didn't stop. Instead he headed for the bridge. Gene realized he
could lock himself in, keep them from the ship controls. He could hold
out there the rest of the voyage.

"We've got to stop him!"

Maher close behind, they ran up the stairs on the Second's heels. Up the
companionway they pounded, the Second increasing his lead. A door opened
ahead of him and Ann O'Donnell appeared.

Symonds cursed and tried to pass her. Ann deftly slid out one pretty leg
and the officer turned a somersault, and brought up against the wall at
the foot of the stairs to the upper deck and the bridge.

But the Second was too frightened to let a little thing like a fall stop
him. He went scrambling up the stairs on all fours. Gene was still too
far away, and Ann moved like a streak of light. She sailed through the
air in a long dancer's leap and with two bounds was up the stair, ahead
of the scrambling, fear-stricken officer.

"Out of my way, bitch," and Symonds hurled himself toward Ann.

Gene leaped forward, but he needn't have bothered. Ann lifted one of her
educated feet, caught the Second under the chin and he came down the
stair like a sack of meal. Gene caught his full weight.

The two men fell in a scramble of flailing arms and legs, knocking the
props out from under Maher, who had started out after them. Just how the
mixup might have turned out they were not to know, for just then the
vast weight of Schwenky descended upon the three and Maher let out a
scream of anguish. But Gene and Symonds were on the bottom, too crushed
by this tactic to make a sound.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was minutes later when Gene came back to consciousness, finding his
head resting in Ann O'Donnell's lap while her swift hands prodded him
here and there, looking for broken bones.

"I'm dead for sure," groaned Gene.

"You've just had the wind knocked out of you. You'll be all right," and
Ann let his head fall from her grasp with a thump. She stood up, a
little abashed at the going over she'd been giving him.

"Where're my mutineers?" Gene asked.

"Went to lock Symonds with the others. What is going to happen now? I'm
not sure I like this development, now it's happened."

"You should have thought of that before you tripped Symonds," said Gene.
"But I'll admit there are problems. For instance, with all the officers
in the brig, how can we be sure we can keep this atomic junk heap headed
in the right direction?"

"What _is_ the correct direction?" asked Ann, squatting down beside him.

"I don't know. We'll have to figure it out, then see if we can point her
that way."

"Let's get up to the bridge," she said.

Schwenky and Maher found them brooding over the series of levers and
buttons which comprised the control board. Schwenky noted their baffled
frowns. His big face took on a worried look. "You fix!" he said. "You
good fellow, Gene. We run ship, let officers go to hell. Yah!"

Maher scratched one patch of greying hair over his left eye. The rest of
his skull was covered with brown bumps like fungus growths. "It's just
possible we'll wreck the ship, let the air out of her or something, if
we experiment," he warned.

"Go get MacNamara," said Gene. "He's been on the ship longer than any of
us. Maybe he'll know."

He didn't. "All I know is grease cups," he reminded Gene.

Hours later eighteen men and four women gathered together in the
recreation room to discuss a plan of action. Everyone had his or her
ideas, but after an hour of wrangling, they got nowhere. Finally Gene
held up a hand and shouted for silence.

"Let's decide who's boss, then follow orders," he said. "If I may be so
bold, how about me?"

"Yah!" said Schwenky. "I do what you say. I like you!"

Old MacNamara grumbled to himself. "Do nothing, I say. We ought to stick
to our duty, and save the lives of those who would have to take our
places...." The unguarded pile had given MacNamara a martyr complex.

Maher looked over at him. "Your idea of sacrifice is all very fine,
MacNamara. But we're not all anxious to die. You know what would happen
now if we gave up!"

Gene spoke up again. "Let me summarize the position we're in--maybe then
we can make a better decision."

"Go ahead," said Ann. The others nodded and fell silent, waiting.

Gene cleared his throat. "The way it looks to me, we've had a lucky
accident in getting control of the ship. So far, we've not contacted the
passengers. They know nothing of the change that's taken place. As it
is, I see no point in contacting them. It might force us to face another
mutiny, that of the passengers, who would regard us as what we are,
mutineers, and when they found we weren't going to our destination,
they'd certainly not all take it lying down. Point number one, then, is
to ignore the passengers, keep the knowledge of a mutiny from them.

"Now, our real purpose in this mutiny is to expose this whole vicious
secret slavery, tell Earth of the danger of the unshielded piles in
space ships, destroy the Company's monopoly, and bring about new
research which I'm sure would eventually overcome the difficulty. Just
how are we going to do that? The answer is simple--we must get back to
Earth, and we must get back in a way the Company will not be able to
intercept us. As I understand it, this won't be easy. The Company is in
complete control of space travel, and they have the ships to knock us
out of space before we can get near Earth. Somehow we've got to win
through. Can we do it by a direct return to Earth? I doubt it. However,
say we do it. Then where do we go? The government might look upon us as
mutineers and thus give the Company a chance to quash the whole affair.

"So we've got to go directly to the people, who, once they _see_ us, and
realize what space travel with these piles means, will demand an
explanation with such public feeling even the government can't avoid a
showdown. It's the secrecy we must break. Thus, we must land on Earth
with the biggest possible splurge of publicity. We've got to do it so no
Company ship can prevent it.

"Then there's this to consider. Most of you would find it a difficult
thing to take up a life on Earth. I know that many of you want to take
off for some remote world, and try to live out your lives by yourselves.
I say that would be a cowardly thing to do. So, before we decide
anything else, I say let's decide here and now that the _only_ thing we
will do is go back to Earth."

One of the most grotesquely deformed of the crew spoke up. "No woman
would ever look at me," he said defiantly. "Children would stare at me
and scream in terror. I've suffered enough. Why should I suffer more?"

The woman in the fine fur got to her feet and walked over to him. She
sat down beside him and took his hand in hers. "I will look at you," she
said. "When we get back to Earth, I will marry you and live with you--if
you are brave enough to take me there."

For an instant the crewman stared at her out of his horribly bulging
popeyes, then he swallowed hard and clutched her hand fiercely.

"The Devil himself will not keep me from it!" he said hoarsely.

Gene, staring at the man, felt a warm hand slip into his, and he turned
to find Ann.

"I think that answers for all of us," she said.

The room rang with the shouts of approval.

Once more Gene began talking. "All right, then, I've a plan. First,
we'll try to find out how to maneuver this craft. I believe we can
persuade one of the Mates to show us the controls without much trouble."

"Yah!" interrupted Schwenky. "They show!"

"We'll set a course for Earth by the sun. We'll come in with the sun at
our back, which means we'll have to make a wide circle off the traveled
spacelanes, through unknown space, and come in from the direction of the
inner planets, which are uninhabited and unvisited. Also, with the sun
behind us, we won't be observed from Earth. Then, with all our speed,
we'll come in, land at high noon in Chicago, right in front of the
offices of the _Sentinel_, the newspaper for which I work."

There was a chorus of exclamations. Ann looked at him in amazement.
"You, a newspaperman!" she gasped.

"Yes. I was sent out by my boss to find out what was behind the secrecy
of the space ships. I got shanghaied as a crew member. Now, with your
help, maybe I can complete my assignment. Once we get to my boss, the
show will be over. He'll blast the story wide open."

"Wonderful!" shouted Maher. "Come, Schwenky! We will get Perkins and
make him show us how to run the ship!"

Schwenky chortled in glee. "Yah! We get. By golly, I know that Gene
O'Neill is good man! Maybe I get my picture in newspaper?"

Maher stared at him. "God forbid!" he said. "Unless it's in the comic
section!"

"Yah!" agreed Schwenky. "In comic section!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Two weeks later, as the ship crossed Earth's orbit and headed in behind
the planet in the plane of the sun, the meteorite hit. It tore a great
hole in the passenger side of the ship, and knocked out the port jets.

The ship veered crazily under the influence of its lopsided blast, and
the crew was hurled against the wall and pinned there as the continuing
involuntary maneuver built up acceleration.

Gene, who had been in his bunk, was pressed against the wall by a giant
hand. Savagely he fought to adjust himself into a more bearable
position, then tried to figure out what had happened. Obviously the ship
was veering about, out of control.

"Meteorite!" he gasped. "We've been hit."

He pulled himself from the bunk, slid along the wall to the door. It was
all he could do to open it, but once in the companionway outside, he
found that he could crawl along one wall, off the floor, in an inching
progress. He made it finally to the control room, and forced his body
around the door jamb and inside. Against the far wall Maher was
plastered, dazed, but conscious. At his feet lay Heinie, his head
crushed, obviously dead.

"Cut off the rest of the jets!" gasped Maher. "I can't make it!"

Gene crawled slowly around the room, following the wall, until he could
reach the controls, then he pulled the lever that controlled the jet
blast. The ship's unnatural veering stopped instantly and both Maher and
Gene dropped heavily to the floor.

Gene was up first and helped Maher to his feet. Together they turned to
the indicators.

"Passenger deck's out!" said Maher. "Except for a few compartments. The
automatic seals have operated. But there must be somebody left alive in
them."

"We've got to get them," said Gene. "But first, we've got to check up on
what damage has been done here, and how many casualties we have."

"Heinie's dead," said Maher. "He hit the wall with his head."

Gene shuddered, and deep in his stomach nausea churned. He thought of
Ann and his blood froze in his veins. "You take below decks, I'll go
up," he said. Ann's cabin was on the deck above.

Maher nodded and staggered away. Gene scrambled up the stairwell as fast
as he could, and ran down the corridor. At Ann's door he stopped, turned
the knob. The door opened. The room was empty.

Suddenly he heard running footsteps, and Ann threw herself into his
arms, sobbing.

"Where were you?" he asked, almost savagely.

"I went to your cabin, to see if you were hurt. What happened to the
ship?"

"Meteorite hit us. Knocked out the passenger deck. Most of the
passengers will be dead, but we've got to go in and rescue the
survivors."

Doors were opening here and there and the crew members able to make it
were congregating around them. They went to the recreation room. There
Gene counted noses. Five crewmen were missing. Of those present, six men
were injured, and one woman exhibited a black eye, accentuating her
other abnormalities. The three prisoners were reported unharmed.

"What about the missing men?" Gene asked.

"Three dead," Maher replied, "two badly hurt. We'll need somebody to
look after them."

"I'll go," volunteered Ann. The woman in fur stepped forward also, and
they left the room behind Maher and Schwenky.

Gene faced the rest. "We've got a real problem now. With a reduced crew,
we'll have to finish a trip that would have been tough with an uninjured
ship. But first, we've got to search the passenger deck and remove the
survivors. All of you who are able, put on pressure suits and come with
me."

He led the way to the locker containing the pressure suits. Seven men,
those who were not too deformed to don the suits, made up the party.
Gene led the way to the Captain's stateroom, ordered the door sealed
behind them, then opened the only door to the damaged deck. The air
rushed out as the door swung open, and suddenly complete silence
descended upon them. There would be no more communication between them
except for signs.

[Illustration]

In an hour they had determined the truth. All passengers but one, a
woman, had been killed instantly. The woman was unconscious, but
suffering only from bruises. It had been necessary, after discovering
her unpierced cabin, to return to the deck above and cut through with a
torch.

When she regained consciousness and saw her rescuers, she screamed.

"That'll give us some idea of how the people back on Earth will receive
us," said Gene. "If we get there, that is."

Later, in the control room, Maher and MacNamara gave their report.

"We can make it," said MacNamara, "but we'll come in limping like a
wounded moose. If any of the Company ships sight us, we'll be a sitting
duck. But maybe it will be better that way. This is like war, and some
of us must die...." His voice trailed off in a mumble.

"Some of us _are_ dying," said Maher. "But he's right, Gene; we can make
it, with luck. We'll not be able to come in fast, nor land in the city,
but we'll make it to Earth."

"That's enough," decided Gene. "If we can land near Chicago, I think I
can manage the rest."

They turned to the controls, and MacNamara went back to his pile room.
Once more the ship limped on, this time directly toward the ball of
Earth, looming a scant twenty million miles away.

       *       *       *       *       *

It took eight days to come within a million miles of their goal. Then
tragedy struck again. The cabin on the passenger deck from which they
had removed the sole survivor blew its door, and the air on the deck
above rushed out through the hole they had burned into the cabin. It had
been forgotten, and it meant the lives of three more crew members.

Then, as they prepared to bring the ship into the atmosphere, Maher,
peering through the telescope, let out a shout. "Company ship, coming up
fast! They're after us!"

Gene leaped to the telescope and peered through. Far to the left, a
glowing silver streak in the sky, was the familiar shape of a space
ship, growing larger by the minute. Studying it, Gene saw that it was an
armed cruiser.

"They've got wise," said Maher. "I thought they would, when we didn't
check in at Io. Probably radioed back to be on the lookout for us."

"Call MacNamara," said Gene. "We've got to see if he can set us down
faster. Maybe there's some way to step up that pile."

Maher rushed off, and Ann came in. "What's up?" she asked.

"Cruiser after us," said Gene, his face grim. "Looks like we won't get
to Chicago unless MacNamara has something up that old sleeve of his."

Ann went white, and together they waited for the old Engineer.

When he came in, Gene gestured to the telescope. "Take a look."

MacNamara squinted through the eyepiece with his double popeyes. "Don't
see a thing," he grumbled.

"Well, it's a Company Cruiser, gunned to the limit. She's going to be
near enough to shoot us down in about three hours."

"Three hours, you say?" MacNamara scratched his head. "How near we to
Earth?"

"Half a million miles."

"You could make it in the lifeboat."

Gene snorted. "That Cruiser'd shoot down the lifeboat as easy as it will
the ship--a lot easier."

"If they can catch you," said MacNamara. "Some of us must die, that the
rest may live."

"Don't start that again, Mac," said Maher impatiently. "What we want to
know is whether you can soup up that pile so we can beat that Cruiser
down to Earth?"

"Not a thing I can do," said the Chief Engineer. "We've only one set of
tubes. Full power would shoot us all over the sky. But I _can_ do
something as good."

"What?"

The old Engineer considered them through his double eyes. "The rest of
you'll take the lifeboat and make for Earth. I'll remain here on the
ship and shield your flight. I'm sure I can hide the little boat for
awhile, and then, even with one jet, I think I can delay the cruiser
until you get away. Someone's got to make a sacrifice. I'm old, and I
didn't want any of this to begin with."

Maher gasped. "Mac, you old fool. D'ya mind if I apologize for what I
just said? But you're right, that's a possible answer. Only I'll be the
one to stay."

"Do you know how to adjust the pile and the jets to make a weapon out of
them?" asked MacNamara.

"No ..." began Maher.

MacNamara grinned, "Nor am I going to tell you! So, you see, you can't
be the one to stay."

Maher gripped the old man's hand and pumped it. "You win," he said. "You
old ... crackpot!" There was real affection in his voice.

"Then be off with you," said the Chief Engineer. "You've not a minute to
lose. Every man jack of you into the boat, including the Captain and the
Mates. I'll not have _my_ ship cluttered up with extra hands that might
cramp my style...." And turning, the old man made his way back to the
pile room, mumbling to himself.

Eyes wet, Gene gave the orders to abandon ship, and within thirty
minutes every living soul was aboard the lifeboat.

MacNamara had finished his work with the pile and was back in the
control room, waiting for the lifeboat to cast off. As it did so, he
waved, then turned to the controls.

As the lifeboat darted away on its chemical jet engines, they could see
the old man maneuvering the big ship so as to keep it ever between them
and the Cruiser. An hour later when they were within a hundred thousand
miles of Earth, MacNamara sent up a flare denoting surrender.

Tensely they watched the distant speck of light that was the ship with
MacNamara on it. Then, around its side came the Company Cruiser,
steering in toward it to make the capture. It was scarcely a thousand
miles from the disabled ship. Gradually it drew closer, then edged in.
Now it was only a few miles away, and at this distance, both specks
seemed to merge.

"They got him!" Maher said.

"Yah!" Schwenky boomed, disappointment in his voice. "Me, I should have
been the one to stay. I would slap them."

Suddenly, out in space, a bright flower grew. A flower of incandescent
light that blossomed with terrifying rapidity, until it seemed to engulf
all space in the area of the two ships. The familiar sphere of
brilliance that marked an exploding atom bomb hung there in the heavens
an instant, then it was gone. In its place was only a vast cloud of
smoke, the dust and scattered atoms that were all that remained of two
gigantic space ships.

"He detonated the pile!" said Gene, "He turned himself into an atom
bomb!"

"Yah!" said Schwenky, his voice strangely muted. "Yah!" Awkwardly he
turned and patted Ann's head as she began to sob.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Is it not handsome?" asked Schwenky proudly, holding the front page of
the newspaper up for all to see. "I have my picture in the paper! Is it
not nice?"

Laughing, Ann kissed the big Swede right on the lips, and hugged him,
paper and all. "It's beautiful, you big lug!" she said. "The handsomest
picture I've ever seen in any paper."

"Nah!" denied Schwenky. "It is not the handsomest. All of us have our
pictures in the paper. We are all very good looking! Not only Schwenky.
Is it not so, Gene, my friend?"

Gene grinned at him, and at the others. Maher pounded him on the back,
and over the uproar came the voice of the editor of the _Sentinel_.
"Telephone for Mr. Schwenky!"

Schwenky looked dazed, cocked his big ears at the editor. "For
Schwenky?" he asked stupidly. "Telephone? Who would call Schwenky on the
telephone?"

"How do I know?" said the editor. "It's some lady...." He thrust the
phone into the big Swede's hand.

"Lady?" said Schwenky wonderingly. "Hello ... lady ..." he spoke into
the receiver, his booming voice making it rattle.

"The other ..." began Gene, then desisted. "Never mind, she'll hear
you...."

"What? You want to marry me? Lady...." Schwenky's eyes bulged even more,
and he roared into the transmitter. "Lady! You wait! I come!" He thrust
the phone into the editor's hands and made for the door like a lumbering
bull.

"Where you going?" yelled Gene.

Schwenky halted, turned with a big grin, "I go to marry lady. She asked
me to become my wife!"

"Where is she?" asked Gene. "Where are you going to meet her?"

Schwenky looked stupidly at the now silent phone. "By golly! I forget to
ask her!" There was tragedy in his voice. "Now I never find her!"

The editor laughed. "Never mind--you'll get a hundred more proposals
before the day's over. You can take your pick!"

Schwenky's eyes opened wide. Then he grinned again. "Yah!" he roared. "I
take my pick! She will be so beautiful! Yah!"

The chatter of the teletype interrupted him, and the editor turned to
watch the tape as it came from the machine. Then he began to read:

"Washington. April 23. President Walworth has grounded all spaceships
and ordered all those enroute to proceed to the nearest port. A
Congressional committee has been picked, including top members of the
cabinet, to investigate the ships, the atomic drives, and the system of
secret slavery among crews. In a statement to the Press, President
Walworth said that space travel will not be resumed until proper shields
are developed. But he added that he had been informed by leading
physicists that the problem can be solved within a year if sufficient
funds were available. Said the President: 'I will see that the funds are
made available!'"

The editor dropped the tape and turned to Gene. "I have one more bit of
information, this one direct from the President by phone. He has asked
me to inform you that he has appointed you new head of FAST."

"FAST?" asked Gene. "What's that?"

"Federal Agency for Space Travel," grinned the editor. "And
congratulations. I hate to lose a good reporter, but maybe you'll be
back after you finish in Washington--at a substantial increase in
salary."

Gene grinned back. "Maybe I will," he said. "And I'll need the money."
He put an arm around Ann and drew her to him. "Two can't live as cheap
as one, you know."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Hell Ship, by Raymond Alfred Palmer

